If you're watching this video, you
probably want to create generational
wealth. And guess what? It's not like
rich kids are born with higher IQs. We
already know that. But they do have
advantages. So, what are those
advantages? Beliefs and skills. I'm
going to do my absolute best to share as
many of these in this video as humanly
possible. Number one, don't despise
wealth. Understand that ethical wealth
creation is possible. If you secretly
despise wealth, it will elude you. You
can't hate rich people and then at the
same time want to become one. Now, I
mean, I guess you could, but it'd be
kind of weird. And so some poor parents
unintentionally teach their kids that
money is scarce and that rich people are
greedy or bad. Now the flip side is that
wealthy parents teach that money is
everywhere and that creating value
deserves some sort of reward through
exchange. And that's fun that's the
fundamentals of capitalism is voluntary
exchange. Key word is voluntary. Two
people choose to interact, choose to
make a trade. And the beautiful thing
about capitalism is both people say
thank you. It's one of the only things
in human nature where people do things
and both people say thank you. You go to
the cash register, you buy the shoes,
the store owner says thank you and you
say thank you. Both people have a net
positive sum from the exchange and
that's how overall economies grow. If
you want to grow your own personal
economy, the idea is how can I create as
many of these positive sum exchanges as
possible? And if you do enough of those
positive exchanges, like why would you
not want lots of people to thank you?
Well, because if a lot of people thank
you, then it means that you were doing
something good that people will exchange
money for. And if you do that a lot of
times, you'll have a lot of money. How
did this somewhere get distorted? Now, a
lot of that's media. And you know, I'll
try to make my own version of of media
so that I can have a very small voice
that says something a little different.
But at the end of the day, money is just
a tool. It allows you to exchange. It's
literally just an intermediary for
exchange. And as a result, it will
lubricate the number of exchanges that
you make. If you're somebody who tends
to do bad stuff, when you have more
tools to do bad stuff, you do more bad
stuff. If you are a quote good person, I
won't even try to define that, but let's
just say good person who has a tool,
they will be able to do more good stuff.
You're probably not going to be able to
create generational wealth if you hate
money. But most people can't even take a
shot because they actually believe in
one of the biggest lies that's out there
is that passive income equals BS. Now,
let me explain. Passive to you means
active to someone else. There's always
someone who is active. It's less of a
binary of active versus passive and it's
a continuum. And so it's like where do
you live on this continuum? Let's say
this is all active and this is all
passive. It's very rare that you have
things that are purely here. Now you can
absolutely buy a dividend ETF and like
the only thing that's not passive about
that is making all the decision and
doing all the research in order to do
that and whatever work you did in order
to get the money. But beyond that, yes,
the dividend that you get from that
would be passive. The thing is is that
most people who see rich people assume
that they have all of this passive money
that's coming in. All the richest people
that I know for sure have passive
income, but they've got way more active
income. Most people are trying to like
get rich on passive when they're like
make active income cool again. I I'll
tell you a story. We own an advisory
practice as part of acquisition.com,
right? Which is where it's functionally
like management consulting. We go, you
know, we go in, we look at a company, we
help them grow. That's what we do,
right? It's actually true custom work.
It's not like courses and coaching or
anything like that. is it's like we
actually have it's unfortunate that the
internet space just like automatically
assumes that that's what everything is
but like all the guys that I have are
exhort xmbbas x mckenzie xbcg xbane like
consultants right that work with big
companies and that's because we can help
companies grow. I work with some
companies in a very very you know acute
format where I'll spend a day with call
like 10ish founders and we'll go really
deep on some of the strategies in their
business and they pay for that and
someone might see that and say Alex why
would you trade time for money? Well,
think about it like this. If I'm going
to work no matter what, so let's just
say Monday through Friday I work 12
hours a day, 60 hour week. So if I'm
going to work Monday through Friday and
I have something else that can make me
more money for that time, why would I
not do it? Because then I can turn
around and take that active income and
then say, "Hey, maybe I'm going to take
some of that and trade it for some money
over here. It's a little bit left. It's
a little bit moving that way." And over
time, you just increase the amount that
you make per hour on the active side.
and then you have a percentage that goes
on passive. But the thing is is that as
you become more and more skilled, your
active will proportionally increase. The
TLDDR is people will spend a h 100red
hours trying to make a $100 a month
passive when they could have just made
$10,000 getting paid for their active
time. That's a bad trade. And so what
everyone seems to forget is that the
people with passive income often had
passive income first. It's like going to
the gym. You have to put in the active
work in the gym for a very long period
of time before eventually you can have a
passive body. meaning like you can just
work out once a week and more or less
maintain your physique, but it takes a
long time to get there. And so,
everybody trades their time for money.
It's just about how much leverage you
get, how much you get per hour in. And
so, max out your active earning hours
first until you have truly gotten all
your passive to the point where it can
pass your current lifestyle. But the
thing is is the vast majority of people
that I've met who've made a tremendous
amount of money usually have a period of
time where they do the cocktails on the
on the beach and then they come back and
they say, "Yeah, that wasn't for me." To
a person, like I'm talking like I can't
even think of one off the top of my head
that hasn't said that. It's just this
myth. And the thing is is the myth keeps
you poor because you make those trades.
You spend a,000 hours working so you can
make $1,000 a month rather than taking
the thousand hours and continuing to
uplevel your skills so you can trade
those hours for higher dollars. So, I'll
give you I'll give you a business
example for you. And this is this is
going to be a little bit a little bit
more advanced, but bear with me. So,
let's say that you've got the
opportunity to have a $10 per month
customer, okay? And that person's going
to stay for 60 months. Okay? Now, people
would see this and say, " $10 a month?
That means it's super low churn. This
much be a very valuable business." Blah
blah blah blah blah. If you could get
that same customer to pay $1,000 upfront
for a lifetime deal, should you do it?
Yes. Yes. $1,000 is worth more than 600.
But the thing is is that people obsess
about this and forget about this and
they do this in their businesses and
they do this with their time. And so
once you focused on active income, you
need to understand something that
separates wealthy from everyone else who
stays stuck. Number three, it's your
fault. So let me explain. These three
words will get you out of poverty. It's
my fault. So one of the best ways to
stay poor is blame everyone else for
your problems. And I want to be clear,
it might not be your fault, but it still
is your problem. And so maybe I should
better say this to less trigger people,
but it's your problem. And so no one
else is going to solve it for you,
right? Your trauma is real. Your
problems are valid. And absolutely no
one is coming to save you. And once you
accept that, you become dangerous. It
actually doesn't matter if it's your
fault, but it is your problem. You have
to solve it because no one else will.
And that allows you to actually do
something about it. My dad came to this
country with $1,000 to his name, but he
bought me a lot of lessons, including
accountability. If my father had been a
hedge fund manager, managing $20
billion, I would have a very different
life. I knew what Baltimore rich was,
right? My dad's a doctor. But then I
eventually saw what Vanderbilt and New
York money was, New York finance money,
New York real estate money. I was like,
"Holy cow." And so I was rubbing
shoulders with some of the world's all
these people when I went there. And I it
like completely shifted my worldview of
like honestly just what was possible.
beliefs, declarative knowledge, knowing
about something. I didn't know this was
possible. I didn't know about this
stuff. Investment banking, I had never
heard of it. M&A, mergers and
acquisitions, private equity, I didn't
heard of any of this stuff. Literally,
the highest income vehicle I had heard
of at the time was just become a doctor.
And doctors make good money. I like I
genuinely like my goal was $100,000 a
year. So, I say this so that you guys
like don't think like I I somehow like
sprang into existence with billion
dollar aspirations. Like I just wanted
to make a hundred grand. That was the
goal for a while. And the thing is is
that average parents will blame the
economy, the government or the system.
They say we have these disadvantages.
It's harder for people like us. They'll
say those things and more importantly
their kids will believe them and then as
a result change their behavior to make
it antithetical or unlikely to them
actually getting out. And so their
parents hurt their kids to protect their
ego. And I'm saying both egos. They
protect their child's ego and they
protect their own ego. But if they were
able to say, "We're not rich because I
don't have the skills and I never
learned them, but I want you to." And
so, how do you operationalize this?
Going all the way to the bottom, you use
what you've got. So, once you figure out
that it's your fault,
people wait for perfect conditions to
start when in reality, starting is the
perfect condition. And that's when you
can start actually making decisions that
lead to wealth. like understanding
principle number four, solve rich
people's problems. You solve rich people
problems because they pay better. And
when you solve rich people problems, you
get to charge rich people prices. And
here's why this matters. If somebody got
$100 in their bank account and you're
asking for 50, you're asking for 50% of
their net worth. So for them, it's a
very important decision. But that same
$50 might be less than 1% of a rich
person's net worth. So they don't even
care. It would just be the equivalent of
trying to sell $1 to that person with
$100 in their bank account, right? they
probably would barely even notice it,
right? And so most parents teach kids to
get a job serving anyone who will hire
them. Wealthy parents teach kids to
target specifically high value markets
with specific problems that higher
skills can help solve. Focusing on
serving valuable markets, not just any
market, is what they transfer to their
kids. I mean, the easiest way to figure
out where the money's at is to look at
who's already rich and see what they're
doing. Thing is like, no one gets rich
on passive income. They get rich on
active income and then it goes passive
and then they talk about it. But here's
where most people go wrong even when
they're solving valuable problems.
They're obsessed with the wrong side of
the wealth equation, which is number
five,
and this is going to ruffle some
feathers. You want to prioritize earning
over saving. So, one of the biggest
mistakes poor people make is they think
they can save their way to wealth. The
truth is, it's better to focus on how to
10x your income than save an additional
10%. Because the thing is is that at the
absolute hypothetical max, all you can
do is save 100%. You could live on
nothing. You could live on the streets
and somehow show up to work or whatever
it is that you do to make money and save
100% of what you make. But the thing is,
if you're making $30,000 a year, it's
just like it takes forever,
even at 100%. This is not an efficiency
problem. This is an absolute volume
issue. You have an income problem, not a
not a spending issue. As much as people
are irresponsible with their spending,
and they are, I think they're more
irresponsible with with how little they
try to optimize their earning. I'll give
you a couple very easy examples. You can
do the exact same job in a different
city and make 30 to 40% more and work
remote. You can just work remote to a
different company and make significantly
more money. And what's crazy to me is
that people don't just like consistently
apply to jobs that make more money even
just in the job market. Like, why
wouldn't you? If you're incredibly poor
right now, like someone will take a shot
on you. And you know what? You might
just learn something that you can take
with you for the rest of your life. And
you also get this crazy thing called
experience, which also stays with you.
You gain evidence. This is the simplest
example I can give you. What I just
explained was arbitrage. The other
version is just an arbitrage of time. So
let's say that you instead of saving,
let's say you have the option, let's say
you have $500. This is actually a real
question. Somebody messaged me and said,
"I have $1,000 in my bank account. What
should I invest in?" And they actually
said, "What stock should I invest in?"
There was a DM I got. And it was so
interesting because I was like, "Man, I
can't believe he would ask me this
question because it's so absurd. It
misses the point." But like, this is why
I'm making this video, right? Is that
that $1,000 will literally never become
anything. Now, you might be like, "Man,
if I put $1,000 into Bitcoin in 2013,
let me let me pull you off the ledge for
a second." So, if you had done that, you
would have $121,000.
Can't retire on that. I mean, it's I
mean, you can live for a couple years,
but you're not going to do much with
that. The point is is that they're
trying to hit hit these meme coins.
They're trying to figure out, you know,
like whatever other BS, but the question
automatically was wrong because he was
optimizing around the wrong vehicle. He
thought he was going to passive income
his way or even hit it big. But the
issue is that you can't retroactively
look at one decision and say, "What if I
put all my money in Bitcoin in that
year? I would be so rich right now. And
you wouldn't be for two reasons. Number
one is that if it had gone up and
doubled, you would have sold it. Number
two, if you actually had done that, then
you would have made another hundred
other stupid decisions. And you have to
factor in those decisions, too. And so
that decision-making calculus would be
one of incredibly high risk. And so,
it's very likely that you wouldn't have
made money at all because it wouldn't
have been $1,000. You would have put $10
into Bitcoin because the other 990 you
would have put into other 999 other
stupid things. And I'm not saying
Bitcoin's stupid. That's not my point.
The point is just that that that would
have been a high-risisk decision at that
time. What do you do with your $1,000?
You buy skills. Now, I say that and
people are like, "Well, how do I buy a
skill?" Well, one is you can get paid to
earn a skill when you get a job and you
actually ask them, "Hey, I would like to
learn these things." One, will you pay
for it? Two, will you let me learn it
from somebody else who already works
here? And guess what? Most employers say
yes. You know why? Cuz no one does that
because everyone's lazy. Everyone's
afraid. Everyone they I can't ask them
if I if they'll pay for me to to learn
something. Why not? It like think about
this for me. If you make $60,000 a year
and you're like, "Hey, can I learn this
other skill?" And I would say, "Okay,
once you learn this other skill, let's
say you want to go to a conference for
two days that speak, you know, teach a
specific thing on, you know, Tik Tok
shop, whatever, right?" Like, "Okay,
well, what are you going to how you
going to use that when you get back?"
Well, I think that if I take that, I
could probably sell the books on Tik Tok
shop. I'd be like, "Okay, I can see why
that would make us more than $5,000.
Great deal. Go for it." Now, what do I
do? I'm happy to shell out the five
grand because it'll make me more back
and you're happy to learn it because it
makes you more valuable overall. Why
would you not do that? Alternatively,
you say, "Hey, Neil, you're really good
at M&A, you know, at acquisition.com. Do
you mind if we have lunch? You're going
to eat either way. I would love to eat
with you. And if you want, I'm happy to
tell you about the stuff that I'm good
at on the media side." And maybe Neil
says no. But you know what? You can ask
20 other people. That's free learning in
terms of skills of like, you know what,
my job for sucks. Everyone is stupid. My
boss is an ass. Whatever. Then what do
you do with your thousand bucks now? So
I just gave you free skills, paid
skills. I just love this example. I've
used it before, but it's so good. Friend
of mine's daughter making minimum wage,
wants to save money. He says, "Hey, why
don't you just triple your minimum
wage?" She says, "How?" He says, "Why
don't you just go get a phabotamus
certification? It takes a weekend and
it's $500 and then you pass the test and
then after that eight weeks or whatever
it is, right? You can then make three
times your earning power. That's going
to save that's going to that's going to
pay more dividends than any S&P, any
Bitcoin, any meme, anything. Because the
thing is, even if you do hit it big,
what do you do when you have $100,000
after that? You're stuck. But the thing
is is that you become the money faucet
when you stack your skills. And so you
can start at the lowest tier, which is
like, will anyone I know teach me stuff?
Above that, you've got YouTube videos
where you can teach yourself, right? And
there's lots of experts who are very
good at teaching things on the internet
that will help. Above that, you're like,
"Okay, well, I have a job. Maybe I'll
learn from somebody who works here, and
I know that these skills are valuable
because my boss pays them more than they
pay me, and I would love to learn it."
On top of that, you ask your boss, "Hey,
can I go somewhere where I will find out
a skill that will make you more money?"
And guess what? I know that skill is
valuable because he'll pay more for it.
If none of those other things, and if
you're like, "Wow, those are four very
legitimate paths to learning." Duh. On
top of that, then finally, you say, "You
know what? no one I know in my business
outside of my life and I can't find it
on the internet or I would need more
personalized attention. Then you take
that and you get a tutor. That's it. You
go to a certification, you get a tutor,
you get a teacher, you learn. Like
that's how I learned Facebook ads. I
just paid someone early. I said, "Teach
me." And then I made way more back. And
the thing is is that real world skills
like running ads, building landing
pages, learning how to write copy,
learning how to sell, these are all
skills that are super valuable in the
marketplace and available for free
online. So if you're like, I'm making
minimum wage. I'm making $40,000 a year.
I don't know how to escape. It's like,
dude, pick one and stick with it. That's
it. And then ask people if they need it.
And so if you did spend that money to
draw blood, right, you earn way more
from a tiny investment. That's why you
don't save. Spend more on the earning.
And I'll tell you, I'll tell you a
little secret. I spent 100% of my money
every single month until I could not
spend the money because I was making too
much of it on learning more stuff. Real.
So we're talking 20, 30, 40, 50. I just
kept plowing it in because I kept
getting a better return on that than
anything I could put it into. I'll I'll
give you this little rule of thumb. The
day you stop investing in education for
yourself in skills is the day that you
decide you're good enough and you don't
want to grow anymore. So if you're not
investing in anything now, then you've
already decided that you don't want to
get better than you are. And so my
favorite way of saying this is that
instead of investing in the S&P 500,
invest in the SME 500 because that $,000
triples your income versus turning from
$1,000 to $1,100 a year later.
Whoop-dedoo. Now once you start earning
these skills, what else do our rich
parents say? Reputation over everything.
Trust is earned in drops but lost in
buckets. Never trade reputation for
money. You can only get one of them
back. Poor parents focus on this month's
bills. Rich parents focus on this
decade's wealth-b buildinging skills.
Every deal I've done with someone who
says they value relationships and morals
above everything else has done the
opposite. So, I prefer dealing with
people that just say they want to make
money, and ironically, it tends to keep
everyone honest. And so your reputation
is your most valuable asset. And I'm
willing to leave money on the table on
this deal. So there are future deals.
And so the moment you prioritize
short-term cash over long-term
investments, you've already lost. So
what you're what you're you're missing
is the value of a story. So let me
explain. I was studying Rockefeller and
he was telling a story to his son about
how he made his first really big
acquisition. So Rockefeller was the
second biggest oil producer in a city in
Ohio. I think it was Cincinnati, doesn't
matter. He was number two. The number
one guy was significantly bigger than
him. And so he approached the number one
guy and said, "Hey, I want to buy you
out." The guy scoffed at him, laughed
him off, and then he came back. He said,
"No, I'm serious." And he was like, "All
right, fine. Let's talk." And so the guy
said, "I'm not going to sell unless
you're going to give me an absurd amount
of money." And so then Rockefeller lined
up the financing and gave the guy an
absurd amount of money. In other words,
he overpaid for the guy's business. And
so after the deal was done, the other
guy who was, you know, once the bigger
guy, uh, was like, "Man, you overpaid
for that thing. Like, it wasn't even
worth close to that." And the crazy part
is is that when Rockefeller tells the
story, he said he was right. I overpaid
for it. But what he failed to consider
was that in the next 60 days,
Rockefeller could say he was the number
one biggest oil producer in Ohio. And as
soon as that happened, he did 22 M&A
deals in the next 60 days rolling up
everyone around him because he became
the biggest player. And so that story,
the delta between the value of what that
company was actually worth versus what
he was willing to pay, that value was
what John Rockefeller valued the story
at. He might have even valued it higher
than that. And his return on that delta
created the next 22 deals he was able to
do. And I think we can all agree that it
seemed to work out pretty well for him.
And so people underestimate the value
arbitrage that exists in a story. And
stories also go both ways. And so if
there's a story that's equal opposite of
that where you're like, hey, if I do
this, I'll give you an example. I
personally have zero issues ethically
with, you know, girls who do only fans
or whatever else. And and I'll, you
know, I'll I'll take the second to say
like I believe that people have their
own choice and as long as they're not
hurting other people, they should be
permitted to do it. Is it is it the
career path that I would necessarily
choose? No, I wouldn't. I would try
that. I would just try and find
something else, right? But do I have any
issues with that? No, I don't. Now, of
course, some people who listen to my
stuff will be like, "Oh, that's
terrible." And then amazing. I love that
you have your own values. That's great.
You don't need to attack mine. Point is,
I've had multiple deals that have come
to me that have been not even
necessarily in that space, adjacent to
it, right? And honestly, met the people,
amazing people, sometimes great business
people, and I was like, I can't do the
deal. I'm really sorry. And they're
like, "But I thought that you are very
like, hey, you know, you're just like
very, you know, everything everything is
what it is. We all die, whatever." And I
was like, "I am." I was like, "The thing
is is that me even having to give the
disclaimers I did is because not
everyone that I do business with is."
And so that reputation would follow me.
And so it's just I'm not willing to make
the trade. Reputation goes both ways.
And the thing is is most reputational
stuff is very irreversible. It's a
one-way door. And so I would rather
maximize as many one-way doors that are
permanent and good than permanent and
bad. So that leads to Rockefeller bought
this story. He bought this element of
reputation he was able to leverage. What
else do rich people buy? They buy time.
And time is a very amorphous thing,
right? Because it really means like I
buy excess capacity so that I can
reallocate that capacity to something
that is going to get me a higher return
than this inanimate object. And so I'll
tell you a little a micro story of this.
How do you make this tactical? So, when
I was single and in my early 20s, I ate
at Chipotle over 500 times in one year.
I didn't know that. I found out from my
accountant who was like, "Why do I have
500 transactions at Chipotle?" I was
like, "Well," he's like, "You really got
to cut down on this bill." I was like,
"Why?" He's like, "You're spending so
much money there." I was like, "Well, I
don't buy groceries." I was like, "I
don't prep food. I don't do any of
that." And that amount of time that
saves me. I was like, "I can do sales
all day." And one sale is 500 bucks and
that takes 30 minutes. And so, I'm happy
to just do that. Everybody trades time
for money.
Everyone does whether they like it or
not because and I'll prove it because we
live in time and we get money over that
same period of time. So all money you
earn is rel is related to some time that
you spent getting it, deciding it, doing
a deal, whatever. There was some time.
Now it might have not been denoted in a
time of you get this per hour, but you
could say it spent took 100 hours to
make this deal and then I made the deal
and I made $10 million. It's like okay
well you took $10 million divided by 100
and that's how much you made. You made
$100,000 an hour. Great. And so if
there's something else that's worth more
than $100,000 an hour, you should do
that instead, right? And so getting out
of this mythology and just looking at
like it's it's and getting out of this
black and white thinking and just
thinking, okay, what are the facts? What
are the observables? Right? And so let
me give you the single best trade that
you only get to make once in your life.
It cost $1,500 a month. I'm going to
break it down for you. Like if you if
you replay any part of this video, this
will be it. The best ROI you'll ever get
for $1,500 a month is that you use that
$1,500 to eliminate all time consuming
human tasks and gain back all the
productive hours. So, let me tell you
what it adds up to. So, let's say that
food cost you 50 hours per month, which
is a lot. Food costs a lot of time. To
get that food completely taken care of
for you is about 800 bucks. Okay, what
else we got? We've got cleaning the
house. We've got cleaning clothes. Now,
both of these, you've got cleaning the
house is somewhere probably around 25ish
hours per month. You've got cleaning and
folding clothes, which is about 16. And
if you're like, where are these numbers
coming from? This is from Z research on
the internet. You can look it up on your
own. Doesn't really matter though.
You're going to get the point in a
second. So, that you can replace for
about $500 a month. You can replace this
for probably about $200 a month. And so,
what does all this add up to? Well, if
you add all this stuff together, you're
going to save 96 hours per month.
for a cost of $1,500. So, rough math
here. If you know how to make more than
$15 per hour, this trade makes sense.
Now, I'm going to do you one better.
Even if you don't make $15 an hour, if
you take the 96 hours every month to try
and learn how to make more than 15 $15
an hour, you can learn that in a month.
And here's the here's the here's the
good news and the bad news. The good
news is that this 100% works. The crazy
part is that I talk to entrepreneurs who
are making a million dollars a year and
they don't even do this sometimes
because they feel guilty about it. But
they just again they believe they buy
into the mythology, right? And if you
can't explain your beliefs, then they're
not your beliefs, they're someone
else's, right? And so you just heard
this thing and someone got poo pooed in
front of you when you were a kid for for
feeling fancy by having a maid. And you
say, "Oh, I'm never going to have a maid
uh when I grow up." But it's dumb. It's
a bad trade. It's like you think about
your business in one way, your cost and
expenses and your income. And then when
you think about your personal life,
you're like, "Oh, I'll mow my own lawn."
It's like, why? Why? And so you can
only, and I told you there's two things,
good news, bad news. The bad news is
that you can only make this trade once
because you can't recoup. Like, if I
could keep spending $1,500 and getting
96 hours back, my god, that would be
amazing, right? But it doesn't work that
way. You can only do that trade once,
right? And that's because there's plenty
of businesses that are set up and
there's plenty of other people who have
fewer skills who are willing to do it
for less. So, if something doesn't buy
you time, strongly consider not buying
it. Stop buying so much stuff because at
the end of the day, do you want to look
rich or do you want to be rich? Here's a
little plus one, a 2011 advanced wealth
for you. Rich people aren't impressed by
stuff, by your Lambo, your Rolex, right?
They're impressed by how rich you'll be
in 20 years. Like, if I see a younger
guy who's flashing a watch, I just think
how silly. Like, you could have taken
that and then like, you could have taken
that in 20 years from now that would
have been something significantly
bigger, maybe a building or a business.
I remember the very first event that I
ran for Gym Launch. And this is when I
was I was a cash millionaire at this
point. I pulled up and it was in Leila's
car. So, it was a it was a Prius, so we
shared a car. A Prius with a cracked a
cracked windshield uh and a dent in the
side door. I pull up and all these
people all these gym owners are there
because I'm I'm supposed to help them
make more money, right? And I remember
and you think that like, oh no, they're
going to think or they're going to say
something. Oh, no. They said something.
So, I remember this this this particular
gym owner was walking and there's a
group of them and they see me. Some of
them keep going. One of them stops and
then just belines over to where I am
taking my stuff out of my car and she
says, "I thought you were supposed to be
rich." It's what she said. "I thought
you were supposed to be rich." I
remember and I, you know, kudos to to
younger me at the time. I said I said,
"Don't judge my car." I said, "Judge my
bank account." And that worked. She was
like, "Oh, okay. Good way to think
about." And then we walked in. It was
all good. Right. But I remember that
story because people do judge a book by
its cover, but she was not very rich and
so she was judging me in that way. And
so don't get poor people rich, right?
Because poor people rich will keep you
poor. So like look at the Zucks and the
Basoses, right? Like they dress like
regular people. Now to be fair, they
they try and brag in other ways with
their $300 million yachts, but you know,
relative to 100 billion, it's literally
less than I mean it's less than 1% of
their income, which is absurd, right? I
mean, I remember for me, I spent 16
months trying to figure out my Darwin
outfit, right? Five pieces that work for
the gym, restaurant, work, or the pool,
right? And sometimes I have to negotiate
my window to restaurants that Leila
wants to eat at because of the dress
code. But at the end of the day, for me,
I can travel for weeks with a small
backpack, get my entire wardrobe in my
bedside table. And so, for me, that's
more valuable. Now, I want to be clear,
there are some people who like, you
know, nice suits and stuff, and there's
nothing wrong with that. And maybe in
some season of my life, I'll do that.
But I think the key is that you're doing
it for you, and not for anyone else. You
want to buy time, not stuff. So it
continues to compound. So what's going
to help you compound faster? Eight. So
what makes you compound all this even
faster? Avoid
bad
environments. Now what's a bad
environment? I would say a bad
environment is any environment that
decreases the likely to achieve your
goals. So this research has been cited
all over the place, which is one of the
the longest longitudinal study studies
on success is that there's a high
correlation between your success and
your reference group, aka the five
people that you compare yourself to. And
so when you get when you cut bad
friends, it's not that you're being
antisocial. It's that you're raising
your standards. Right? If you want to
change your actions, the easiest thing
to do is change your environment. Right?
Average parents teach kids to get along
with everyone. Right? Wealthy parents
teach kids to ruthlessly create their
circle. I mean, I'll be real. Like there
are some parents, and this isn't me poo
pooing parents, but that basically let
their kids hang out with anyone. I mean,
I could tell you that was not that did
not fly in, you know, in my household.
anybody who was going to hang out with
me when I was a kid. I'm not saying and
obviously now, but like I didn't know
that my parents were helping me in that
way when I was younger, is that they
made sure that the people that I was
friends with were cool. And by cool, I
mean like going somewhere like not not
scrubs, right? If you're ambitious and
young and you have friends who are less
ambitious than you, don't be friends
with them. And then find people who are
more ambitious than you and don't let
them be more ambitious than you. Because
if if your friends don't have goals,
your goal should be to get new friends.
My fastest one strike policy is if I
feel like you're anything but stoked
when I win, I don't need you. Like I
already have enough people rooting
against me, right? It shouldn't at the
very least my friends should root for
me, right? And so friends root for you
to win and to make you better. Enemies
tell you to put your goals on hold and
secretly hope for you to lose. Think
about how wild this is. Let's say that
the people who in your life like do they
increase or decrease the likelihood you
achieve your goals? Now don't think
about intention. Don't think about their
reasoning. Just accur ask yourself this
is a little bit of objectivism and this
is how I see the world which also makes
it it's far more powerful for pred
predicting what's going to happen. Does
this person increase or decrease the
likely to hit my goal if these answers
decrease? When you have two or three or
four of those, you've got three or four
people that are decreasing likely to hit
your goal. That adds up. Now, on the
flip side, if you had multiple people
that increase the likely to hit your
goals, what do you think happens? You
rise up. And so, if someone calls
themselves a friend but acts like an
enemy, treat them like one. The most
dangerous enemies are the ones who call
themselves your friends. And if you
define enemies as people who decrease
like likelihood to hit your goals, a lot
of the people you think are your friends
your enemies. And on the other side,
there may be people who actually are
your enemies who might be your friends.
If you're competitive with someone and
all they do is drive you to do better
because they're your friendmy. They
serve real value. Maybe you are better
friends with them. Kind of interesting.
So when someone tells me they have a lot
of friends, all I think is they just
have low standards. So the question is
why does having a reference group full
of ambitious and successful people help
you, right? I'll give you Alex's theory.
So motivation is the equal opposite of
deprivation. So let let's say this is
the goal and this is you. Okay? The
greater the gap is between these things,
the greater the motivation. So if I just
ate lunch, I am not that motivated to
eat because I'm not deprived of food. If
I don't eat for 3 days, I'll be
incredibly motivated to eat because I am
deprived of food. If you haven't slept
in two days, you're very deprived of
sleep and therefore very motivated to
sleep. Right? Now, how does that work
with successful behaviors?
Well, if you let's say money, because
it's a simple one, right? Let's say you
want to make more money. If you are the
wealthiest person of the people you
compare yourself to, your motivation to
make more money will be significantly
lower. Now, to be clear, I'm not saying
that's a bad thing. I'm just saying it
will be. If the people you compare
yourself to, even if you're around poor
people, make a lot more money than you,
then your deprivation will be
significantly higher. And you would
think though, wait, shouldn't I
shouldn't the logic be that all poor
people should be more motivated to make
money? No, it's about who they compare
themselves to. And if you are the
richest of your poor friends, you might
feel like a baller. And again, nothing
wrong with that. But I only talk about
increasing likelihoods. So I'll give you
a real world example of this. So who do
you think makes more money? And I'll tie
it in. Married guys or single guys?
So, ironically, people are like, "I
don't want that expense. I don't have a
wife and kids." Well, married guys make
more money on average. Kind of
interesting. And married men with kids
make more than just married guys. The
thing is this, why would that be a
thing? They make more money because they
need more money, right? They have more
deprivation for money when they have
four kids than they have no kids, right?
And when you have a wife and four kids,
you got to make more money. That drive
is what drives them to make more. Now,
again, if they then also, that's an
element. If they also compared
themselves to people who made
significantly more, they might make even
more than that. And so it's not like, oh
wait, does this are these contradictory?
It's like, no, they're additive, right?
And so the problem is that most poor
people know a lot of other poor people.
And so they're not that poor relative to
the people they know. So the deprivation
to their reference group is basically
nil. It's zero. And so they're and so
too is their motivation. And so most
people are so busy looking for outside
investments, they completely miss the
most obvious opportunity staring them in
the face, which is understanding what
actually makes them money. So number
nine, so middle class families teach
their kids that their home and car are
assets. Rich families will teach their
kids that assets are only things that
put money back into your pocket. Now,
the only money rules that matter to me
are number one, make this A, spend less
than you earn. I say this as duh, and
yet so few people will do it. B, buy
stuff that goes like this in value. If
you spend less than you earn, you'll
have some leftover. With the leftover,
you buy stuff that will be worth more
tomorrow. But that stuff that be worth
more tomorrow might be a skill. And the
thing is because the skill, like if you
thought of a skill as an extra $1,000 a
month, then wouldn't like what
investments can you pay $500 for one
time that make you an extra $1,000 a
month for the rest of your life? That
would be an insane investment. And
that's what skills are. And here's
what's even crazier. They're not
taxable. You also can't lose them in a
divorce. No government can take it from
you. And it might be because my my
family fled from Iran during the
revolution. And so we lost everything.
The only thing we had was education. But
that's why I'm so hard on this stuff.
And then eventually when this stuff
makes you more than you need to live,
you're good. Happy face. Everything else
is just bonus. And so it sounds obvious,
but like the thing is is that simple
things can be simple to understand, but
difficult to execute. because that's
where the heart is with this stuff. It's
it's not in the understanding, it's in
the doing. Actually wrote this. People
fail not because there's some magical
list nobody has. They fail because it's
an obvious list nobody does. Number 10
is rich parents have a higher minimum
standard. So what does that mean? So
there's a couple ways to think about
this. So number one is that rich parents
will talk in different orders of
magnitude in different increments. This
is the classic example of like Warren
Buffett uh when asked you to do a mic
check was like 1 million 2 million 3
million and it's just like and I I know
it was it's joke at the time but I just
I thought about that because like when I
was a younger kid I used to count my
money in how many Chipotle burritos I
could buy and then as I got older it
turned into a larger increment which for
me was actually the number of customers
I had to sell in order to make
something. And then over time basically
it's just number of number of units of
something that I've had to sell in order
to get whatever I want. It's just the
unit of thing has just stayed stagnant
and the cost of those things have gone
up. Rich parents simply won't allow
their kids to go below or accept
opportunities that are minimum below the
minimum. So I'll give you a different
example. So there's a guy that I know
who grew up rich. All right, super rich.
New York rich. He has somehow been able
to make, call it, $400, $500,000 a year
for the vast majority of his adult life
with basically no skills. Like he does
nothing. Like I'm very confident like he
actually does nothing. And what's
interesting though is that like he's had
to go from thing to thing because
eventually people figure that out. But
he will stand there in a negotiation and
they're like, "Hey, you know, we'll
we'll pay you 385,000." and he's like,
"I'm not working here for less than
450." And the crazy thing is is because
he just genu like like delusionally just
like he would rather be broke than be
someone who makes less than that. And so
like I think that is kind of the
declarative knowledge, those standards
that are passed down. Like that is
probably some of the biggest gift. It's
like of course you're not going to do
that. It's not worth your time. And so
they they simply wait for better
opportunities. That's really it. Like
they just won't say yes to something
that's not as good. and they'll just
wait. And so like think about it. Think
about it in a guys and girls scenario.
Like there are tons of poor guys who
have like hot girls and there's tons of
ugly dudes who have hot girls who aren't
rich. All right? There are they exist.
Believe they exist. What separates them
from the other guy who's equally badl
looking who doesn't have the hot girl.
The other guy just went on more dates or
waited longer. He just kissed more
toads. Whatever you want to say, right?
Eventually there's going to be some
crazy uh hot enough girl that's just
like, "You know what? he's my kind of
ugly and it works. And that's the thing
that I think a lot of poor parents don't
transfer their kids is like there's a
significantly higher amount of volume
and because they know it's possible and
rich kids aren't smarter than poor kids.
They might be more educated but not
smarter. And so if them why not you and
so another big difference between these
so this is number 11. I forgot to write
down number 10 but let we'll just we'll
say number 10 min standards. Actually
I'm going to add one more thing to that.
So one more on on minimum standards is
that the measuring stick they use to
measure is is bigger right they're
measuring increments like listen to the
examples that people are talking about
that they claim are a lot around you so
if the people if you meet somebody and
they're like it was like $1,000 right
like that $1,000 might that's like them
demonstrating that this is an increment
that is meaningful to me you want to
hang around somebody who's like you
always want to hang out with the person
who has the the largest increment that
they measure things with the largest
measuring stick. And I'll give you a
finance example from hedge funds in New
York. They have a slaying term for a
million dollars, which is a stick. And
so it's like two sticks, four sticks,
because it's such a common increment of
money. Hard to fathom when you didn't
grow up around that. So number 11,
there's four types of money, or rather
four sources that you can pull that you
can use for leverage. All right? And
this is super important. you get poor a
lot of times based on the type of money
you use. So on the kind of like on
little A over here is you can use debt,
right? You can use consumer debt, you
can use a credit card, Lone Shark,
whatever to buy stuff. You don't want to
do that because not only does it cost
you today, it cost you more tomorrow.
The next is that you can use your
savings. So this is your little nest
egg, right? That's another place that
you can finance whatever purchases you
want out of. The third little bucket
that we have is you can learn it out of
your cash flow. So, you make you make a
check, you get paid on Friday, you take
some of that check before it goes into
savings and you spend it. Okay, simple
enough. And then the last is what I like
to call new opportunities. And the
easiest way to explain this is I had a
construction kitchen remodeler who came
out here. They were probably doing like
5ish million a year, something like
that. And she wanted us to look at the
business and have my team kind of like
do a full analysis and be like, "All
right, this we need to change the
market. This we need to change sales,
whatever, right?" And so, it's not
cheap. and she took on a project for an
extra 150 grand uh that was like a
personal design project that she doesn't
normally take on so that she could buy
it and pay for it. And I remember
thinking to myself like she's going to
make it like she'll be fine because she
already thinks about money the right
way. And this is a common trait I've
seen among wealthy people. And if you're
not wealthy yet and you can adopt this
mentality, then it increases the
likelihood that you will make more
later. Which by the way, I just
mentioned that lady who came out. If you
are a business owner and you're making,
you know, you've got a legitimate
business, you've got employees, revenue,
profit, etc., and you'd like to see how
we grow companies. Uh, every month at
acquisition.com in person at my
headquarters, we hold basically two-day
workshops where my team, my actual, you
know, director of marketing, director of
sales, director of media, all of all of
my team basically works with businesses
to just help them grow. And it's a cool
way for us to meet new companies that
kind of builds our pipeline on the
investment side, but it also just
provides value to you guys. And so, it's
kind of a cool win-win. You know, the
reviews are exceptional. So the link is
ACQ ACQ the letters.com
vegas. You can go there and you grab a
time with my team. They'll just ask you
a couple questions, make sure the
business makes sense that we can help
you out. And if so, then we'll invite
chat here to Vegas and have a have a
party. Not really. It'll just be almost
all entirely business. And I would
encourage you not to party or at least
till afterwards. Uh but beyond that,
let's get back to it. So in reverse
here, if you pay out of this, you're
taking from the present. Here you're
taking from your past self. Here you're
taking from your future self. here is
the only place where you can take all of
your existing flows. They can continue
to get allocated to your investment
goals, your savings goals, whatever it
is, but then this money allows you to
take advantage of a new opportunity. So,
you're like, okay, I want to do this
thing. It wasn't in my plan, and so
therefore, I'm going to do something
that also wasn't in my plan to get it.
That's the magic. And I love this
because this is how this how I'm biased
here. This is how I think about money.
There's a great story of Paul McCartney
who was like he he was with was it
Yokoono or whatever and he wanted a
swimming pool and she was like no where
she whatever for whatever reason he
couldn't get it and so he said fine he
said I'll just go write a song and so
she said you're going to write yourself
a swimming pool and he said yeah and so
write yourself your own swimming pool is
he needed to go write a song he knew if
he wrote the song he'd make the money
for the swimming pool he could have it
so of course he could afford it he was a
beetle he was crushing it but it's the
concept and the thing is is that's the
thing is it's like even when you have
the money it's like well I've already
allocated all this money and this is
something that did I didn't expect so
it's totally okay to also do work you
didn't expect to get it all right number
12 and this one you're not going to this
one will probably surprise you so this
is this is sass spending is a skill the
only people who say you can't buy
happiness haven't given enough away and
the reason is is that spending money
using money is a skill and so it makes
sense
that as you increase your income and I
think the the numbers have been updated.
It used to be $70,000. Now it's closer
to like you know $400 or $500,000 is the
is the cap on happiness. But that's
usually because at $400 or $500,000 that
is what most people can fathom with
their existing understanding of the
world for ways to use money. And rather
than saying spending money, using money
and so you want to use money because
it's a tool like a pro. And people don't
even think about it like that. Of
course, you can like, of course, there's
investments, but how can you spend
effectively, right? This is where you're
constantly
buying time, not stuff. And the thing
is, there are levels to buying. This is,
call it my 101. This is my this is my
you get up to, you know, a couple
hundred,000 a year, this this level of
spending. But most people stop there.
You can keep going on this game, right?
You can get a house manager. You can
have executive assistants. You can have
multiple executive assistants. You can
have drivers. You can have security that
also help and do things for you. You can
retire your parents. You can control
your calendar even more aggressively.
Like you could fly private. You like
there are plenty of other things that
you can spend money on to amilarate
little vocab word for you improve your
life. And so I remember I'll tell you
the story. So Leila and I when we were,
you know, coming up, I think at this
point we were probably make it doesn't
matter. We're making a lot of money.
I'll just leave it with her. And we met
with a friend of ours who's
significantly older and you know, she's
like, "Why do you always look like
crap?" And she was being a little bit
mean, but she was saying that to to Ila
because she was like, "You're always
just dressed in gym clothes." Right?
Now, both of us came from fitness, so
like we just that's all we owned was
fitness clothes, right? And she said,
"Why don't you buy nice stuff?" And Ila
was like, "I just, you know, I just feel
weird spending that much money on
clothes." She's like, "You have so much
money. What are you talking about?" And
so she said, "I'm going to take you
shopping." She said, she said, "You suck
at being rich." That was actually what
she said. And so she took Ila shopping.
And so I remember Ila told me the story.
She she she walked in to the store and
she's like, "Okay." She's like, "Meet me
at the in the at like Neiman Marcus or
Chanel or something, whatever." And so
she gets into Chanel. And then she was
like, "Come to the back." And they're
like she was like, "Okay." Okay. So, she
goes to the back and they had an entire
room all along the whole sides of all
the room. They had already prepicked all
the clothes to be only Leila's size. And
they had like champagne. And she was
sitting there. Her friend was like, "All
right, you're not leaving here without
spending at least $30,000." And so Ila
sp and like Ila's like stomach dropped.
She's like, "Oh my god." And so she
spent $3 like $6,000 on clothing. Now,
of course, my stomach dropped cuz I was
like, "What happened?" But but anyways,
she spent the money and the point was is
is that this friend of ours had been
rich for a very long time and she was
like, "You said you wanted these
things." So she's like, "So get them."
You know, it's just like And again, you
might be like, "Wait a second. I thought
this is this is antithetical to that."
Leila likes that stuff. She would wear
she wears it. She She likes this stuff.
I obviously don't. And I think that
that's like if you if you take anything
from this, it's doing you right. I think
the you acquire this money to do what?
You're going to die with it and then
leave it to somebody else who's going to
blow it. So, who cares, right? I talk
about this from the perspective of how
do I optimize to get this outcome? Once
you get the outcome, you can do whatever
you want. But if you only optimize
around money, you optimize around
accumulation of a tool. So, you might as
well also have the skill to use